Free-write 11 April 2017

A house. A strange house, built of cards. Ready to topple in the wind and yet
never seeming to fall. Not some childish card tower built on a coffee table, but
a true house, with wall and a roof and doors. The blue-patterned card backs
faced out towards the silent forest. On the inside, who knew what lay? No one
had ever set food inside. It was closely guarded, this house of cards, by the
superstition of old wives' tales and an ominous "Beware" sign posted on the
road before it.

The once-villages in the valley nearby were now nothing more than decrepit
boards and long-forgotten dolls, laid barren by the same strange repulsion
centered on that house of cards. Something in the forest warned of a strange
presence: no animals chittered, no leaves stirred, nothing breathed. The whole
world held it's breath in a moment of still, silent waiting. Nobody came here.

How do I know? What do I know of a long-forgotten, abandoned valley in a far
away land of mountains and mist? What could I know of such entrancing
nightmares... not enough, it seemed. The deepest mysteries have hearts of
impenetrable thickness, un-knowable without traveling deep inside them. I know
this house of cards, delicate and yet braced against a mountain's thunderstorm,
guarded and yet with the door standing wide open, because once I journeyed to
its depths. Yes, I, the unlikely traveller, crept unnaturally through a forest,
afraid of my own noise. I passed the empty walls of old ruins and the relentless
stares of gnarled trees. I came to that sign, saw its warning. Dare I say I
ignored it? No, the folly. I heeded it well, and was cautious. I tread slowly,
still, a shadow of unseen clouds. I kept my eyes to the ground, never looking at
the house, avoiding its entrancing invitation. I was patient but unwavering. I
could not stop or I would be consumed by the strange power of that open door,
and I feared I might turn and run. In which direction, I could not be sure.

At long last, I found myself upon the doorstep of a flimsy porch. It wasn't
inviting, not the way the door was. The porch had born the brunt of storms,
charred by lighting, molded by moisture, some of the cards bent or torn. I
forced myself onwards. So close, and yet to what? What lie in the center, openly
daring intrusion and yet forbidding it? I stepped over the threshold. My eyes to
the floor, I nearly didn't notice it until I stood in the middle of the empty
room. I was surrounded by the walls of card faces, and as they stared at me,
eyes unmoving, their hearts beat as one in a steady, age-old rhythm. I felt
drawn to them, and yet repulsed by their gaze; they implored me silently to come
no closer, to backstep and distance myself from them. But I could not--I had
dared come this far. I would find my answers, settle the mysteries.

I turned to examine the opposite wall, and imagine my surprise to find a solid
rock of black granite at the base of a pedestal. I can't think to have missed
it, only that it had clearly always been there. I bent to pick it up, and felt
it faintly pulsing in my hand. Slowly, not the same as the now-increased tempo
of the heart-walls. It was faint. So easily missed. But I knew it, I knew it in
my heart of hearts, in the soul that beckons to the sky and the earth and
demands the million other living things know its vibrant colors, in the gut that
drops like a small, solid rock. And I could do only one thing--I engulfed it in
the love I sought for myself, and I was overcome.

What came next, how can I hope to describe? The cards flew apart, finally gusted
in by the wind, perhaps, the sun shone down on a forest that hadn't known life
in aeons, and a brilliant chorus of birds erupted into the sky, singing an
ancient song in time with the beat of that stone--that red stone! No longer
black, it shone a deep red, a pulsing heart, beckoning to the life all around
it. And I, I was captivated by it. I thought to put it on the pedestal, but why?
Was it so perfect that it should be put on display and guarded by a flimsy house
of paper? No, see, it is chipped, just at the top. It has other scars, invisible
fault lines that I have found in my many hours spent with it. But that gives it
the beauty, not that silly "eye of the beholder" nonsense, that
all-encompassing, all-enrapturing beauty. The beauty the world over recognizes
for a split-second reflected back at them in those rare moments of piercing
sight that all too quickly disappears. And that beauty, that I took from the now
alive forest, and I returned to my house of cards. I tore down the walls and
rebuilt them with stone, painted them a bright red. I built a wide porch, and a
rocking chair. And I sit there now most days, rocking with my worn and chipped
heart, and I smile. I lose myself inside it's crevasses and the contours of its
surface. As for my valley? Bathed red in a sunset unmatched save in Eden, it
flourishes.
