Free-write 18 April 2017

She is walking through a forest, a forest frozen in time. Red-gold leaves float
still, not fluttering as she brushes them with her hand nor stirring as the
white train of her dress drags across the ground. The sun is warm against her
bare back, exposed by the low cut of the dress. Her own golden brown tresses lay
against her back, caressed by the sun light but dancing in no wind. The white
lace of her sleeves curve against the top of her shoulders and float down around
her wrists, widening into loose billows.

This is her life. She has been here, waiting, for a long time. Trapped amidst a
beautiful Fall, frozen after a joyful Summer, dreading the coming of Winter. She
drifts among the trees and the hills, blisfully relaxed and yet never quite
content. Something is missing, something unknown. She drifts, frozen in time,
never stopping. There is no day, no night. She sleeps not, eats not, and misses
not their pleasures. Without time, without change, how could she? And yet she
insists on searching, wandering aimlessly, seeking purpose, seeking that which
was lost. What could it be?

In the infinities of a timeless forest, there is no lack of meadows, each as
tranquilly still as the last. But this one, this one is different. It would be
pointless to speak of *when* she wanders into it; similarly, it has no *where*.
But it has a strangeness. At first, she stared at its flowers, seeing them
little, as they are the same flowers in many of the meadows. Now she circles the
edge, seeing a peculiar fraction of light, divisions in the smallest degree that
shouldn't occur at all. A glint of red here, a flash of blue there. She spirals
slowly into the center, wathcing the flowers bend and distort, as though shards
in a broken mirror depended from a mobil all around her. The refraction grew
stronger as she neared the center, bright dazzling rainbows straining to leap
out of the corner of her eyes and into her reality, until when finally she there
arrived the entire forest was a broken fragment of color, an abstract prism of
sunlight.

And he existed.

There was no "before," no "after," no "then." He had no history, like her, like
this place, because none here exists. If he had ever not existed, it would be
impossible to say. He exists now, and thus does in the entirety of time
contained here--that is, a single moment of forever.

However, he *is* different. Something about him isn't her. He stares at her, and
sees her. Not just her surface beauty, but her inner unchanging emptiness. And
he fills her, pouring his love and his devotion into and over her, bathing her
in the water she didn't know to miss. He finds her, and she at last him! The
fractured meadow erupts with a crash into an icy, reflective Winter, which
swiftly was blown away by Spring. They dissolve as the world around them fades,
having escaped the aimlessness of unchanging and eternal solitude. They existed
there, but *now* they live.
