Free-write 25 April 2017

A light blooms out of the dark. White and yellow-orange flash into existence,
spreading across the expansive void.

A coffee stain spreads across half-inked pages. The mug lies on its side, next
to the cracked and fallen pen.

A rose petal falls to the sidewalk. The rest of the blossom overlooks an empty
sidewalk at dawn.

---

He hurried home that evening from work: he had a lot to do, a table to set,
candles to light, the works. Date night was stressful sometimes, but this one
had to be extra special, and that meant getting it ready was extra stressful. He
patted his coat walking down the side walk towards his apartment. Yes, still
there, right where he'd put it. Couldn't lose that.

His key turns in the door, *click*. Briefcase in the corner, coat on the hook,
no time to take shoes off. When was she coming? *7?* Just an hour to get
everything ready... *breathe*. He could do it. It would be so worth it when she
got here.

Chicken in the stove, check. Vegetables roasted, just need reheating.
Silverware! He needs silverware... the drawer, just there on the left. On the
table; no, wait, tablecloth first. Where *was* that white tablecloth his mother
had given him? Upstairs closet, no. Pantry? There it is! On the table. Now the
silverware, the good stuff he'd inherited and polished meticulously the day
before. She'll be here soon, just 45 minutes. What else...

Right! The dishes! Such fine china, worn with age and use, the very dishes from
his parents' wedding. Does he put it on the table, or leave it in the kitchen to
serve her? Kitchen it is. He steps back, breathes. Very nice. He shivers; it's
cold. That reminds him: the candles! On the table they go, a box of matches too.
Is that everything? Chicken, veggies, cake in the cupboard, champagne in the
fridge. Glasses, need glasses. There.

Now, he needs the romance. He hurries upstairs, 30 minutes to go. He smiles, the
flowers on his windowsill having grown since they started dating a year ago.
Now, they fill the box and remind him of those first days... but no time for
that. Got to get everything together. Shoot! He needs a thin vase. Downstairs,
cupboard--no, the other one--under the sink. There. And it needs water. 20
minutes. Upstairs again. Got to get that letter written. Is that this morning's
coffee, or yesterdays? Can't say, doesn't matter. He shrugs it off and sets the
vase on the desk.

He picks up an old pen, his favorite, and begins the story of the day they met.
Such circumstance, such happenstance. An accidental bump, a brush of hands, and
then a look in the eyes and a conviction. This, he knew, would be her. The one
he would win forever. His hand sprawls quickly across the pages, ink pouring
out. Coffee mug spills, damn! It's on the letter! Too late now. 5 minutes. Got
to get that rose. The pen is thrown down, cracking on the side. He takes the
second of two lone roses growing in his boxes, puts it in the vase. Hurry now,
hurry. Vase on the table. The letter! He almost forgot. Upstairs, about to get
the letter, doorbell rings. She's here! He runs downstairs and throws the door
open: empty. Empty? The sidewalk is bare, blank...

He fingers the ring in his pocket, turning it restlessly. She was supposed to be
here hours ago... what happened?

Chest, hurts. Could she, doesn't she? Wasn't it love?

Cries, can't stop, tears, sobs shake him.

---

The sun rises on a sad, heartless morning.

A light blooms out of the dark. White and yellow-orange flash into existence,
spreading across the expansive void.

A coffee stain spreads across half-inked pages. The mug lies on its side, next
to the cracked and fallen pen.

A rose petal falls to the sidewalk. The rest of the blossom overlooks an empty
sidewalk at dawn.

A ring tumbles to the floor. His mother's diamond shines brilliantly, and then
fades, forgotten in tears.
