Something I wrote for a close friend and later submitted to a lit-mag.

---

### The Sun's Rainbows

He closed the door to his modest house, his shoulders hunched with fatigue.
Despite the amusement of the day, work was exhausting. Barely managing to get
the keys on the table and his shoes off his feet, he dragged himself into bed.
Not even bothering with pajamas, he lay down his head to rest.

She threw her purse down, slammed the door, and leaned back against the wall.
All the energy drained out of her as the tears slowly began to fall. Crying out,
she let the emotion bury her. Slowly, she carried herself to the couch and
grabbed a blanket. Wrapping herself up in a bundle of hurt, she drifted off to
sleep.

Nothing is more disorienting than closing your eyes and seeing a sunrise. The
sun rose slowly, bringing with it a new vibrancy. The trees stretched their
branches ever higher, and the slow notes of the birds' greetings began to ring
out. The crystal dew caught the red light of dawn and threw it around, creating
a rainbow underneath his feet.

The soft warmth of the rising sun caressing her skin was enough to convince her
to open her eyes. Finding herself curled up on the forest floor, she rolled onto
her back and gazed up at the cloudy sky. The sounds of the forest, the only sign
of life, added to the tranquil silence that absorbed her.

He turned with ease to look behind him at the gently rustled leaves. He found a
sight that no painter would ever be able to capture. The mix of quiet stillness
projected by her body and the pain shining brightly out of her eyes intrigued
him.  Being careful to tread lightly on the gold and brown leaves underfoot, he
lay down and wrapped his arms around her.

She turned into his embrace, drawing comfort from this second sun. Such kindness
was overwhelming. Burying her face in his chest, she almost couldn't stop the
tears from returning. But a single sob wracked her body, startling both of them.
The forest creatures, unaware of the emotion contained by this single patch of
sunlight, continued on with their simple lives.

He felt the shaking of her body and squeezed tighter. Stroking her cheek, he
whispered gently, "Shh. I'm here. I won't let go. Promise." He pressed his lips
to her forehead, wishing for all the world that he could swallow her now-flowing
tears, her overwhelming pain. All thoughts of the beautiful sunrise gone, he
thought he saw the forest turn a shade darker. Everything seemed grey, even with
the oblivious scurrying of squirrels and the happy chittering of chipmunks.

Her tears streamed faster. The small beads of emotion ran down her face and
dripped onto the colorless leaves. Slowly, everything disappeared. The world
spiraled inward, leaving only a small remnant of the meadow and a single flower.
Its leaves drooped, and its petals yearned for a sun that did not shine. She
squeezed her eyes shut, trying to contain the frothing waters of her grief.

He was lost, alone without a paddle, trying to navigate the churning ocean. What
could he do but hold her there, in that puddle of grey? Where is the compass
that can guide one heart to another? There was no sun to point the way. He would
have to look for another source of light.

She was drowning. Waves crashed over her. The rocks in her heart dragged her
down to the bottom of the ocean. Her little air was fast escaping, and soon it
would be gone.

He turned away from the sky and looked into the waves. He searched amidst the
anger and the crushing sadness, looking for hope. There was so much space in her
large heart, but presently it was filled with an open ocean, black as night.

She turned her gaze upwards, reaching out for anything she could grasp. Despite
the salt in her eyes, she strived to penetrate the darkness.

He could see nothing. The blackness threatened to draw him into its cold
embrace, and he began to lean into it. As his face touched the water, he saw a
faint glimmer, a small spark of what remained.

Her energy gone, her eyes drifted shut as she relinquished what fight was left
in her. As they closed, her eyes caught sight of a dim star.

He dived in, swimming hard, struggling to reach her. She seemed gone, but he
could see the light! Each stroke brought him closer, until she was almost within
his grasp. She was almost lost to the darkness, but he took hold of her and swam
to the surface.

The light now blinded her.

Her spark was now brighter, a reminder of the flames she once had and a
precursor of their return.

---

She opened her eyes and found herself gazing into his. In them she could see the
reflected sunrise, bringing color and life to the world around her. Smiling, she
stood up and set off in search of a good spot for a bonfire without so much as a
glance behind her. The tears were still damp on her cheeks, but they caught the
light of the sun and threw rainbows under her feet.

