Blankboards

Imagine a whiteboard. A big one, extending far beyond the limits of your
sight. Just a big ole blank white board, waiting to be filled in. Zoom out,
and see all the whiteboards, exactly the same humongous size as the first,
filling up space in a grid of colored marker and explosions of thought on
erasable canvas. Whiteboards as far as you can see, with words and symbols and
blobs, some with moving pictures, others playing music, some connected by
strings of yarn and others covered in sticky notes. And one, off in a corner,
blank. A marker sits on the tray, uncapped. But nothing is drawn.

I won't say I'm used to having all the answers (we all know how feisty faith
can be), but in school I can usually sit with a difficult question and find
words from a fleshy fold of brain matter somewhere in the cavern that is my
skull and speak to the question, providing some form of answer. Sometimes that
looks like a lot of external processing (read: talking to walls and other
inanimate objects); at others, it's headphones in and jamming out. Sometimes
showers, sometimes bike rides, sometimes staring at pine cones, sometimes
lightning-quick flashes of inspiration in class. I've even written all over
paper on the walls. Even with the tough questions, my brain is running
full-speed most of the time, drawing strange connections and ready as often as
possible to spit back an answer half-formed of precise thought and half of
blob-like shapes and colors. As you can imagine, whiteboards fill up fast that
way.

I thrive on extended metaphor. My favorite way to write is to take a metaphor
and meditate on it, pursuing the fleeting images wherever they might lead me,
capturing their essence in a free-flowing dialogue of pen and paper. The idea
leads me; I do not control it. I think this is why I see connections well, why
I see whole systems and individual moving parts, why a peculiar song lyric
reminds me of a movie which in turn draws me to a book or a story of my
grandfather's. I'm willing to let things go where they will, to spread and
adapt and change to the day, the space, the mood. Rarely is there something
that leaves me entirely speechless, without existing connections to draw on or
thoughts to explore. I know I'm young, and there is certainly a lot out there
that is unfamiliar to me firsthand. But we understand the unknown via the
known--we incorporate new knowledge in the context of older experience. In
other words, we as human beings *connect*. Everything is a network of
emotional memory and half-remembered facts and midnight-snack-induced dreams.
So when something doesn't immediately become a new branch of my worldview, I
am reminded of how much I don't know and how difficult some experiences can be
to incorporate. And that can be breath-taking.

Imagine then, my spiritual journey in Raleigh this summer. I am confronted
daily (thanks to my boss, Katherine, our agencies, and our community members)
with issues that leave me at a loss for words, poetic or otherwise. Often, I
am simply pensive, leaving the office concerned that I am "broken." I reflect
and wonder and wait and throw spaghetti-thoughts at the wall, and it seems
like nothing sticks. For someone generally ready to reply, someone like me, it
can be frustrating. At first, it's just a reminder that I ought to pause
before responding and organize my thoughts. Then, it begins to feel like I'm
searching a haystack for a needle. And after a while, the void really starts
to feel empty, as words like "toxic masculinity" and "welcoming spaces"
bounce around without company in the walls of my skull. My whiteboards of
ideas and thoughts and connections have remained mysteriously, frustratingly,
quietly blank. And not for lack of trying--we are pushed constantly to reflect
on difficult experiences, to ask the hard, deep questions, to find words in
the deep dark void that we call ourselves. And sometimes all we can do is sit
and say, "I don't know."

Before this summer started, I would have said that it's alright to admit to
not knowing, that I've done it before and that I was comfortable not having
all the answers. And on some level, that was true: I don't mind not knowing
what dinner would be, what class would look like in a few months, or what life
would bring in just a few short, sweet years. But I never realized I wouldn't
be comfortable drawing a blank when faced with tougher questions of who we are
and who we are called to be, of where I might be welcome and where I might not
be, of just what social justice issues might look like. I sit and sit and sit
and wait, staring at the inner-most recesses of my brain, repeating the words
over and over to myself, hoping desperately for a bolt of connection, for
anything I can draw on as background, for even a solar wind to stir the cosmic
tides and shift my perspective. And that lonely little whiteboard, it just
sits with me. Waiting on me to pick up the marker and write *something*. It
sits, blank. And so I sit, uncomfortable, pensive, deep in the trenches of my
brain, but unable to fight off the pressing silence of thought.

And pre-summer me is almost right: it *is* alright to not know. It's needed
and necessary and important and *healthy*. When was the last time I really
found myself speechless before I started at RYM? When did I last find myself
wrestling with some big question and unable to formulate the beginning of a
response? When last did I sit, wordless in the face of the universe,
struggling against silence and open to the possibility that it is beyond me?
But I am not *comfortable* with it--it is intentionally uncomfortable space,
space in which we push ourselves to the limits and find that, with all
barriers removed, we don't know which direction to go in. That confusion, that
lack of direction, *that* is our struggle with the unknown, with the deeper
questions of faith in a modern setting. What are we going to do?

I reflect on our theme for the summer of 2017, and I am reminded that even as
we are looking at creating space in our communities, we should also look
inwards. We should explore how we create internal space to wrestle and
struggle and be *wrong*, how we can as a community open up that space to
asking tough questions. We should make sure that, amidst a sea of busy thought
and faithful action, in a storm of colors and blobs and sticky notes, we leave
open in a corner a whiteboard, blank. Empty. Silent.

---

The original posting of this material (written by me, David Knoble) can be found
[here](https://youthmissionco.org/blankboards/). This is the unedited copy
submitted for that post.
